hi guys is mr. Paulo biology here with
my second video on DNA technology from
unit 5 in this video we're going to look
at in vivo gene cloning on the use of
plasmid vectors so here's our objectives
we're going to describe the action of
DNA ligase we're going to understand how
genes can be inserted into a plasmid
vector and we're going to explain how
host cells containing the recombinant
plasmid can be identified so let's get
started by looking at DNA ligase so DNA
ligase it's job is to join together DNA
fragments that have complementary sticky
ends the thing is sticky ended fragments
will automatically anneal together they
will stick back together but the
hydrogen bonds will only form between
the complementary base pairs which means
that they can be broken pretty easily so
DNA ligase its job is to complete the
sugar phosphate backbone so we get
stable double strand of DNA and this is
really useful because it can be used to
piece together many different DNA
fragments so if we pick off where we
left off in the last video here's two
sticky ended strands of DNA some
fragments and these have been produced
by cutting with the same restriction
endonuclease so the complementary base
pairs are there and that means we can
use DNA ligase to form the proper
double-stranded DNA by completing the
sugar phosphate backbone and this is
recombinant DNA where it's been formed
from two different sources so how do we
get this into a host cell or a living
host cell because at the end of the day
that's what in vivo means in in living
so to get into a living cell we need to
use a vector and we use plasmids as
vectors which are circular rings of DNA
that are found in some bacteria
obviously most and I would say all but
some and here we have an example of a
plasma so plasmids often contain the
genes for antibiotic resistance so I've
got in blue the gene for antibiotic
resistant to tetracycline and in dark
blue I have the gene for antibiotic
resistance to
Basilian so if a bacterium was to
contain this vector that was to contain
this plasmid it wouldn't be able to be
killed by tetracycline or an Basilian so
if we want to insert a fragment into
this plasmid to insert into a host cell
we would cut the plasmid and we would
cut it pretty much smack bang in the
middle of the one of the the antibiotic
resistance genes and we would cut it
with the same endonuclease that we use
to produce the DNA fragment that we wish
to insert so here we are
there's our DNA fragment and we can use
DNA ligase to form a recombinant plasmid
now we are now note at this point that
the gene for antibiotic resistance test
het recyclin has been disrupted whereas
the gene for unn Basilian resistance
remains intact
so that means that this bacterium if it
contained this plasmid sry could be
killed by tetracycline but not by
ampicillin so we need to get this vector
this plasmid here into a bacterium and
we do this by something called bacterial
transformation basically it's a case of
taking your modified plasmid you're a
competent plasmid taking your bacterium
adding calcium ions and heating and that
makes the bacteria permeable so the
plasmid will be taken in through the
cell wall and the cell membrane there's
a problem with this though because it
doesn't always work it's not massively
successful and in fact very few bacteria
around 1% or less will actually fully
take up the plasmid the other problem is
that the recombinant plasmid doesn't
always form because the sticky ends
where the end the restriction
endonuclease cuts the plasmid those
sticky ends anneal and stick back
together before the DNA fragment is
taken in so we need to be able to
confidently identify which bacteria have
taken up the plasmid and which haven't
so how do we do this well we need to
understand a couple of things so here's
a bacterium that has no plasmid this guy
can be killed by antibiotics
this guy here has taken up the
unsuccessful plasmid the one that didn't
take in the fragment this can't be
killed by tetracycline or imbecilic
because the genes are still intact this
guy took up this plasmid successfully
and it's the right plasmid as well this
guy can only be killed by tetracycline
and ampicillin will not kill it because
the gene for ampicillin resistance is
still intact and we can use a couple of
different ways to to identify successful
hosts first which there's a really nice
example of the old way of doing things
which is replica plating basically you
would grow a bunch of bacteria on some
agar jelly from there you would take a
copy so you basically just press on
another agar plate on top of the
original plate and take like a
fingerprint of it and you would grow it
again this time though it will be on a
plate with a piece Ilyn so this would
kill off all of the organisms of the
bacteria that were not resistant to
ampicillin you would then do the same
thing again but with a tetracycline
plate okay so by doing this you can see
which bacteria have taken up the plasmid
and more importantly by comparing the
tetracycline plate to the ampicillin
plate you can see which organism have
taken up the correct plasmid or the one
that's been made recombinant because at
the end of the day the recombinant one
will be able to be killed by ampicillin
but not by tetracycline so it'll be the
colony that's present on the ampicillin
plate but not on the tetracycline plate
there are other ways of doing this more
modern techniques for example we can use
fluorescent gene markers which is
basically where we insert the gene for a
fluorescent protein which is found in
jellyfish called GFP and then we insert
the desired gene that we want in the
middle of that GFP gene and bacteria
which do not show the green fluorescence
have therefore taken up the plasmid
successfully now we can also use enzyme
markers to do this so
you could insert the gene for lack days
and basically lack days will turn a
specific color of substrate blue the
desired gene you're then gonna insert
right in the middle of that lactase gene
so bacteria which do not produce the
lactase will not be able to turn the
substrate blue and can therefore be said
to have taken up the plasmid this is
quite complicated it might take a couple
of watches to get to get your head
around this but do take your time with
it it can be tricky so to summarize a
DNA ligase is used to form recombinant
DNA plasmids cut with the same
restriction endonucleases are used as
vectors identifying host cells which
have taken up the vector can be achieved
by using gene markers for antibiotic
resistance fluorescence and production
of and enzyme I hope that's been helpful
for you guys thank you very much for
watching please like comment and
subscribe